=head1 Overview

This is the design document for the L<Mo> module.

It is intended to help people understand the thinking behind Mo.

Like Mo, this document is a work in progress. Nothing here is in stone.
Everything is up for discussion. This document just explains the current
understanding, so you'll know where to start.

=head1 Design Goals

Mo has the following design goals. These goals are all important and have to
be balanced against each other.

=over

=item Provide usable OO for Perl modules.

This includes I<at least> the following. The current implementation contains a
bit more than this, but that is due to the other design goals.

=over

=item Single Inheritance

Mo should provide a mechanism for inheritance. At least single inheritance.

=item Object Construction

Mo needs to provide a C<new()> object constructor. It should take a set of
name/value pairs and return a new object reference, blessed into the class'
package name.

=item Attribute Declaration

Mo needs to provide a way to declare attribute accessing methods. They need to
be able to set and get values.

=back

=item Be minimal

Mo only adds features if they are considered very desirable B<and> can be
implemented in a very small amount of code.

=item Be useful

Mo wants to be the first module that Perl programmers reach for when they need
simple OO. To that end, it needs to be extremely useful and support common
idioms, even if they are not strictly minimal.

=item Be fast

Mo should be about as fast as if you rolled your own OO. It should be fast at
both startup (compile) time and at run time. It should especially strive to
have fast accessors. Speed optimizations should be simple and minimal.

=item Be embeddable

There may be situations where you want to inline Mo into your code, For this
reason, Mo will try to be in one minimal pure Perl file, with no comments or
documentation.

=item Easy upgrade/downgrade path with Moo

L<Moose> has become the accepted style of OO in perl. Mo will attempt to not
do the things it does in an incompatible style to the C<Moose> family.
    
This is not to say that all Mo code can be switched to Moo, or vice versa.
This I<is> to say that you should be able to find a style of coding using the
full capabilities of Mo, that you can switch to Moo (or L<Mouse> or L<Moose>),
if you want to.

This is a difficult design goal, and might sometimes lose out to the other
goals. However, this document will attempt to explain all the decisions.

=back

=head1 Current Status

This section will go into detail on all the current aspects of Mo, why
decisions were made and any known concerns being thought about.

=over

=item Inheritance

Mo uses C<extends> to name its (single inheritance) parent.

In the past, Mo supported multiple inheritance. This was consider suboptimal
for a couple reasons. MI is generally frowned upon in Perl. It has problems
that are better solved by roles. It also makes the BUILD call sequence much
more difficult, which makes Moose compatibility hard. For this reason, we
removee MI as a Mo feature. As a result, the code became much simpler.

It is highly doubtful that roles will be supported either. One should upgrade
to Moo or higher when MI or roles become needed.

=item Construction

Mo uses a C<new> method for construction.

It makes use of the BUILD method, for construction extension. Since it does
this, it is only proper to call the SUPER::BUILD methods in the same order as
the Moose family. Mo does this. This is not the minimal method of
construction, but it is considered useful to have, so we do it. Hopefully this
is not too big of a performance penalty. Speed optimations should be
considered.

=item Accessors

Mo uses C<has> for generating accessors. Like Moose, it takes a name and a
list of option/value pairs.

All options are silently ignored, except C<default> and C<build>. These were
implemented because they are almost always needed, and the implementation is
minimal. They are always lazy (like 'lazy => 1' in Moose). Since Mo will
likely be rare in a precompile environment like in mod_perl, this is
considered a speed gain. It also happens to be the more minimal way to code
this.

If neither C<default> nor C<build> is requested, C<has> will return a
getter/setter that is optimized for speed.

All accessors are 'rw'. That means they are getter+setter methods. Since
C<has> ignores the C<is> option, there is no special case for a read only
accessor. The accessor (in 'get' mode) checks C<@_> for zero. This check could
potentially be avoided if 'ro' were honored, but if one expects a 'ro'
accessor, they expect it to fail on set. Given that, you would still need to
check for zero args, so no speed gain is possible.

=item No runtime checks

Mo will not check or validate its usage. It is so minimal, that it will leave
this up to the code author. Run time checks don't offer any gain when the
usage is already correct. In a dynamic language like Perl, they only serve to
make code slower. Plus, runtime checks would bloat the Mo code. Where would
you draw the line? The best option is to leave them out, document things well,
and let people write tests for their code, if they really need to. Upgrading
from Mo is another alternative.

=item Size matters

Mo.pm is currently golfed, compressed and unreadable by mere mortals. It has
no comments or pod. The documentation is in Mo.pod and the comments are all in
here. This makes Mo.pm a little black box of code that you can use anywhere.

When we hack on Mo.pm we run it through perltidy and it looks great. When we
are done we run ./script/compress.pl on it and it turns into 2 lines.

The package declaration and $VERSION are on their own line. That way if
someone inlines Mo, they can make their own package line more easily, and just
grab line 2, the code.

This also helps because Module::Install barfs on parsing out the VERSION
otherwise. We should fix Module::Install or coonsider stop using it for this.

=item strict and warnings

We turn on strict and warnings for the user of Mo because it is really easy
and offers great value. Also, all the other Moose family does it.

=back

=head1 Topics, Concerns and Issues

This is a list of eveything else.

=over

=item Why not Moose?

The sad fact of Perl 5 is that OO isn't built in.

Moose not only added OO, it took OO to a new level. It is indeed a postmodern
system. Unfortunately this comes at a (often hefty) performance price.

Attempts to make something similar but less hefty came in the forms of Mouse,
Mousse and Moo. Mo is just the next attempt. It is a bare minimum OO
framework, that still looks like Moose.

I've heard people argue that Mo doesn't belong in the Moose family, but those
same people often feel the same way about Mouse and Moo. It won't stop me from
trying to make something wonderful, that can be fairly easily upgraded to
something possibly more wonderful.

With each of these attempts, less of the original Moose power is implemented.
This annoys the hardcore Moose developers. But hopefully it pushes them
towards making Moose better and better. I can imagine the day when Moose is a
compiled in part of the C<perl> interpreter and thus faster then Mo. At that
point, all the others will become remnants of the past.

In the meantime, I hope that Mo et al, helps people to get past their Moose
inhibitions, and start using the Mo* that makes sense. I(ngy) have authored
other OO base modules like Spiffy and Gloom. There are things about those that
I sorely miss in the Moose family, but I have decided to stopping fighting the
Moose. I for one, welcome our new giant antlered overlord.

=back
